Hi welcome to day2 arun.
executing git commands

#touch is used to create file in wpowershell or gitbash or linux command 

#nano used to open that file 

#git init is to intialize the reposirtory like it create a folder name as .git,so the git 
starting to  track all the changes we going to made.

#git add . moves all changes to the staging area, 
where they are prepared for commit and can be reviewed before committing.

#git restore --staged . is used to unstage all files, meaning it removes them from the 
staging area and puts them back into the working directory.

#git reset or git reset --staged . is used remove all files from or unsatge those.
 The give difference between git restore and git reset is restore only works in before commit,
 whereas it works in both before commit and after commit.

#git commit -m "message" saves the staged changes permanently in Git history with a message.

#git revert is used to undo committed changes like using particular id  
safely by creating a new commit.

#git reset head is used to deletes the last commit u did, git reset used delete all the changes u made and files u created as well.

#git log is used to see overal activity.

#git status is to check the files which are stagged,branch position 
#git log is used to view the commit history (overall activity) of the repository.

✔ Shows:

commits
authors
dates
messages
✅ git status

Your sentence:

check the files which are stagged, branch position

👉 Correct version:

git status shows the current state of the working directory and staging area, including staged files, unstaged changes, and the current branch.

✔ It shows:

staged files (ready to commit)
unstaged files
untracked files
current branch

#git branch is used the check what branches in the reposirtory

#git branch xyx is used to create new branch 

#git switch and checkout xyyx is used to chnages the branches .

#git merge is used to merge to branches 

✅ 1. git branch

Your sentence:

used to check what branches in the repository

✔ Correct version:

git branch is used to list all branches in the repository.

✅ 2. Create a branch

Your sentence:

git branch xyz is used to create new branch

✔ Correct 👍
Better full form:

git branch xyz

👉 Creates a new branch, but does NOT switch to it.

✅ 3. Switch branches

Your sentence:

git switch and checkout xyyx is used to change branches

✔ Correct idea, but fix spelling + clarity:

Modern way:
git switch xyz
Old way:
git checkout xyz

👉 Both switch branches, but switch is newer and clearer.

✅ 4. git merge

Your sentence:

used to merge two branches

✔ Correct 👍

Better version:

git merge is used to combine changes from one branch into another.

❓ Can we “demerge” after merge?

👉 ❌ There is no direct “demerge” command

But you have options:

🔹 Option 1: Undo merge (if not pushed)
git reset --hard HEAD~1
🔹 Option 2: Safe undo (recommended if already pushed)
git revert -m 1 <merge-commit-id>

👉 This creates a new commit that reverses the merge

🧠 Simple summary
Action	Command
List branches	git branch
Create branch	git branch xyz
Switch branch	git switch xyz
Merge branches	git merge xyz
Undo merge	git revert or git reset


#git .gitignore is used to ignore wtever file we don't want to push to publi or wherever.

# git rebase is used to clean up all the commits like make it cleaner and understanable.

#git stash ?
✅ .gitignore

Your sentence:

ignore whatever file we don't want to push

✔ Correct version:

.gitignore is used to tell Git which files or folders should not be tracked or committed.

✔ Examples:

node_modules/
.env
*.log

👉 Important: it prevents tracking, not just “pushing”.

⚠️ git rebase

Your sentence:

used to clean up all the commits

✔ Partly correct, but better version:

git rebase is used to rewrite commit history, often to make it linear and cleaner.

✔ What it can do:

combine commits (squash)
reorder commits
move branch onto another base

⚠️ Warning:

It changes history, so avoid on shared branches.
🟡 git stash (you asked this)

👉 git stash is used to temporarily save your uncommitted changes without committing them.

💡 Simple meaning:

“Save my current work for later, and clean my working directory”

🔧 Example:
git stash

✔ Saves changes
✔ Makes working directory clean

🔄 Bring changes back:
git stash pop
📋 View stash list:
git stash list
🧠 Easy summary
Command	Meaning
.gitignore	Ignore files from tracking
git rebase	Rewrite/clean commit history
git stash	Temporarily save work
🟢 Final answer

✔ .gitignore correct idea (improve wording)
✔ rebase = clean history (but also rewrites it)
✔ stash = temporary save for unfinished work

🔍 git diff means

👉 git diff is used to show the differences between files in Git.

It helps you see what changed before committing or after changes.

🧠 Simple meaning

“What did I change in my code?”

📦 What it compares
1. Working directory vs last commit
git diff

👉 Shows changes you made but NOT staged yet

2. Staging area vs last commit
git diff --staged

👉 Shows what is ready to be committed

3. Between commits
git diff commit1 commit2
💡 Example

You change a file:

old: Hello World
new: Hello Git

git diff will show:

- Hello World
+ Hello Git
🟢 Simple summary
Command	Shows
git diff	Unstaged changes
git diff --staged	Staged changes
git diff A B	Difference between commits
🎯 One-line answer

👉 git diff is used to see what has changed in files before committing or comparing versions.